# OCR Image Processing - Test Automation

### This program was written as part of the final project in the Software Testing course in Computer Science at Hebrew University. The  program performs test automation on the OCR image processor according to different test classes that were determined by us to be important.

## Usage and Methodology
The .py file can be called from the command line by name, and will go over the input .csv file by row, first performing OCR image processing on the image (given by path), then comparing this to the expected output in the relevant column in the same row. Thus, by creating images specified to test edge cases, the program will iterate over the .csv file and test many cases that otherwise would have been tedious to check by hand.

## Tested Features
The first stage of creating specific tests is partitioning the test case space into equivalent classes of the features and usages the Tesseract documentation stated as supposed to work.
Then we proceed to break these classes into specific features as follows:
* Font size and type: We will validate that tesseract correctly performs OCR on all the legal font sizes and font types (these are discreet values and thus can be checked easily). We will not check all the various combinations as this will increase the amounts of tests dramatically. We will check, solely, all the font sizes for the widely used Arial font (because all fonts are separate equivalent classes we would need to check all sizes for each font, generating many test cases) but for each font we will check the boundary values of the sizes (still trying to ensure maximum coverage).
* Positions of text in image: Although it is possible to divide an image into specific coordinates (according to PPI for instance), testing this for every position on an image will be very time consuming. In addition, as in every other test we are in essence examining this capability we do not think it is necessary to repeat testing for general coordinates. We do think it is important to test that the program works at the boundaries of the image and at the correct angles (as specified in the starting requirements, so tests verifying text placed at 4 corners of an image, and at different angles will be run.
* Languages: From the requirements it was not clear if Tesseract handles text containing letters from all 4 languages. At this stage we will validate that the program works for all the specified languages together, and separately (altogether another 15 tests). The tests will perform the OCR upon a few images containing strings of letters. As before, checking all the combinations of font sizes, types, and languages is time-costly and expensive. Thus, we shall only test the languages with one specific font size and type.
* Configuration Parameters: Testing of this feature will be divided in to two separate sections:
  * Functionality – We must determine that the two ways of running Tesseract with configuration parameters work as expected. We shall perform this on a specific font, language, and font size as to not add many combinations. These are the only tests that will not be automated.
  * Verification of CP's – We will perform tests on all the different CP's to detect possible defects. After determining that both ways of running Tesseract with Configuration Parameters work, we will run the rest of the Configuration Types with a config file (as this can be automated). The testing will be performed on all logical combinations of parameters (i.e blacklist, whitelist, unblacklist). As usual, the testing will be performed for a certain font size, font type and language.
